Did
everybody have a good July
4th weekend this past weekend?
Anybody?
Yeah, I know I did.
We went to Kings island.
It was here's the crazy thing
you would expect Kings island
to be like packed on July 4th.
The parking lot looked packed,
but we got in and like most of
the rides were really quick.
So, um, yeah, it was great.
We enjoyed it.
Um, and excited about this
week, cuz it has been.
If any of you have been outside here,
it's been like in the eighties, you know,
upper eighties, you can't beat that.
So, um, anyway, so we are
going to be in Luke chapter 15
today, starting in verse 11.
If you wanna turn there, we'll
also have it up on the screen.
If you don't have it.
Here's my encouragement for you.
If you don't have a copy of God's word,
which is totally fine, because I didn't,
um, for the longest time back at our
next steps table, you can grab a Bible on
your way out if you don't like carrying
around a Bible and you're saying, Hey,
I need something a little lighter.
Great.
You got your phone.
So I encourage you to grab a
Bible app, um, go out to the
app store search Bible app.
Um, I use the U version Bible app.
It's a great one to take
with you wherever you go.
Um, but anyways, um, Luke chapter 15,
Starting in verse 11, most of us will
know this story of the prodigal sun.
Um, but wanted to look at this
today again, um, I was thinking
through, what would we talk about?
What we preach about?
We just got done with the sermon
series over the book of first Timothy.
And so right now we're just doing
individual messages each and every week.
and so the cool part is we
get to jump into this message.
So I wanna start off by asking questions.
I love asking questions.
This gets you guys hopefully engaged
a little bit, um, in, in some things.
So anybody ever, uh, thought you knew
better than your parents, like your
parents would tell you something and
you go, no, I think I know better.
Good chance that the majority
and current students here, uh,
would probably say yes to that.
Right?
Most of us would say yes to that.
Um, let me ask another question.
This is gonna veer off a little bit.
Have you ever thought, could I ever be
forgiven of something I've ever done?
You know, something that you've done
in your life that was horrible, or
maybe something that you did as a kid?
And you're just like,
could I ever be forgiven?
Like could my parents forgive me?
Could God forgive me?
Maybe you haven't had that.
I know I've had that in my life.
Let me, let me ask another tough question.
Have you ever asked, how could
someone ever forgive this
person for what they've done?
Or maybe how could God ever forgive
this person for murdering this person
or forever doing this to this person?
I know I've been that way where
I've looked at people and I go,
how could God ever forgive them?
Or, or how could I ever forgive
them for what they've done to me?
That's tough.
Um, last one, I wanna ask you ever
ever said, Hey, that's not fair that
they got two cookies and I got one.
I mean, maybe it's not just cookies.
You ever thought.
Man I follow after Jesus.
Maybe that's what your, your father
of Christ and you go, I follow after
Jesus and, and, uh, I don't have that,
but man, they don't and they have
this and they have this great life.
Why would God allow that to happen?
Why, you know, you've
gotten jealous a little bit.
Those are some of the things we're
gonna talk through today because
this story really points to a lot of
these things that we just brought up
is these things in our lives that we
have struggled with where we begin
to question our parents, or we begin
to struggle to wonder if we could be
forgiven or, or could we forgive someone
or, you know, so, so on and so forth.
And so this story today, the prodigal
son really depicts, um, the story of.
Two brothers and one father.
And if you wanna look at the story, this
is typically the way we look at the story.
The, the father in the story is gonna be
recognized as God for us, as we look at
this picture, and then you've got the two
brothers, his sons that typically we look
at and, uh, we, we wanna be thankful for
the one of the younger brother, right?
Because the father forgives him.
But we also look at the older
brother and we really wanna be
judgmental of the older brother.
But I've even found in this story, cuz
I've read this story so many times that
I've actually kind of questioned each
one of the people in the story, even the
father in the story, because I'm like,
how could the father forgive him for that?
Um, and so anyways, I say that I
want you to understand how the story
depicts this story, um, in this.
But, um, as we look into this story, um, I
want us to think about this, that we will.
Find yourself somewhere in this story.
And as we do, I, I would challenge you
today to go home and evaluate who you are
and maybe what area of your life that you
need to, uh, change or turn from today.
And so my challenge for you
is to open your heart, be
ready for God to speak to you.
And because of that, I wanna take some
time to pray and ask God to do that.
So let's pray.
Lord Jesus.
We thank you Lord.
For today, Lord, we pray for our hearts
to be open our minds, to be open Lord that
you speak through this word that you speak
through this message, uh, to reveal to us
Lord what we need to apply to our lives,
uh, to change our lives and to challenge
us to live, uh, more and more like you.
And so we pray this in your heavily name.
Amen.
So before we jump into this text,
we've gotta start with actually the
first couple of verses in chapter 15.
And the reason why is if we don't,
we'll miss the context of this message.
And so let's read the first two verses,
which may not be up on the screen, cuz
I didn't tell him to put the two first
two verses of 15 in there, but it says
this in verse or chapter 15 of Luke,
it says all the tax collectors and
sinners were approaching to listen to.
Speaking of Jesus and the Pharisees
and scribes were complaining this man
welcomes sinners and eats with him.
So as we look at this, we know
that there's tax collectors and
sinners that are listening to Jesus.
Uh, first picture to me is this
is an amazing thing, right?
These are people who need Jesus
are actually listening to Jesus.
Praise God.
Right?
We wanna celebr.
right.
That, that we should celebrate,
because honestly, we're
probably part of that group.
A lot of times when we're, we're really
coming and listening to Jesus, but there's
a group here that doesn't like it, and
it's really the religious leaders, right?
The religious leaders were complaining.
And why were they complaining?
Because Jesus welcomed these
sinners and ate with them.
How, I mean, that's not a big deal.
Should I be a big deal?
We have to understand
what the big deal is.
These tax collectors, uh, as he labels
them, If you guys know much about
tax collectors in these days, these
tax collectors were Jews and these
religious leaders were Jews and tax
collectors would tax the Jews, their
own people for the Roman government.
And they would typically take more than
what was even expected in taxes so that
they could get, make money off of it.
But number two, here's the number two part
that the taxes in which they collected
from their own people would go to a
government who was suppressing them, who
was murdering them, putting them in jail.
And so I'll tell you this,
a tax collector was like the
worst of the worst of the worst.
So for Jesus, a person who claimed to be
religious to sit and, and talk with these
people and to eat with these people, man.
They weren't very happy.
So what would be a great
example for us today?
And I'm gonna give you
a, a, a, some example.
Sometimes my examples are horrible,
but just imagine this, that I was,
of course, I'm not Jesus, by the way.
But imagine your pastor was sitting
and eating with someone who was in your
family or your friends who consistently
stole from you and then gave that money.
Some of that money to a government
or person who was suppressing.
Was causing, uh, destruction in your
life was maybe killing some of your
friends or putting them in jail.
How happy would you be with me?
If I was sitting that with that
person and just shooting the breeze?
I mean, I, I'm just being honest.
I don't think you guys would be
happy me sitting with your enemy.
Most of us wouldn't because
we would say, how dare you?
Do you know what they've done to me?
See, now we understand why
the Pharisees and the scribes.
We're frustrated at this.
Why would Jesus Sid with them?
But this story that we're gonna talk
about today will talk about not only their
hearts, but many times guys, our hearts.
This is going to be a mirror
today, including myself.
That at times we are very, very
judgemental on who God can save on who
God can forgive and who we can forgive.
When we forget that we're in the group
of the centers and tax collectors.
When we look at this story even more.
So let's read at this story fully from,
uh, chap or verse 11 on through 32.
So it says this, it says, he also
said, speaking of Jesus, a man had
two sons, the younger of them said to
his father, father, give me the share
of the estate I have coming to mean.
So he distribute,
distributed the assets to.
Not many days later, the younger son
gathered together all that he had and
traveled to a distant country where he
squandered his estate in foolish living.
After he had spent everything,
a severe famine struck the
country and he had nothing.
I, I just wanna stop right there.
When I read this, I go,
it was coming to him.
Right.
He deserved that.
. I mean, that's my, my perspective.
I'm maybe a little harsh with that,
but then he goes on and says, then he
went to work for one of the citizens
of the country who sent him out
into his fields to feed the pigs.
And he longed to eat, to fill from
the paws that the pigs were eating,
but no one would give him anything.
And when he had came to his sense, he
said, how many of my father's hired
workers have more than enough food?
And here I'm dying of.
I'll get up and go to my father and say to
him, father, I have sinned against heaven.
And in your sight, I'm no longer
worthy to be called your son,
make me one of your hired workers.
So we got up and he went to his
father, but while the son was still
a long way off, his father saw him
and was filled with compassion.
he ran and threw his arms
around his neck and kissed him.
And the son said to him, father,
I have sinned against heaven.
And in your sight, I am no longer
worried to be called your son.
But the father told a servants
quick, bring out the best robe, put
on, put it on him, put a ring on
his finger and sandals on his feet.
Then bring the fat and cap and slaughter.
And let's celebrate with the
feast because this son of mine
was dead and is alive again.
He was lost and he is now found.
So they begin to celebrate.
And now his older son was in the field.
And as he came near the house,
he heard dancing and music.
And so he summoned one of the servants
questioning what these things meant.
Your brother is here.
He told him your father has slaughtered
the fat and calf because he has him.
Back safe and sound.
And then the older brother became
angry and didn't want to go in.
So his father came out and pleaded
with him, but he replied to his father.
Look, I have been slaving
these many years for you.
I have never disobeyed your orders.
You yet, you have never given me a goat
so that I could celebrate with my friends.
But when this son of yours who has
devoured, devoured your assets with
prostitutes, you slaughtered the fat and
calf for him and son, he said to him,
you are always with me and everything I
have is yours, but we had to celebrate
and rejoice because the brother of
yours was dead and is alive again.
He was lost and now he has found.
So let's look at this, um, through the
eyes of each one of these guys, right?
So the older brother, the younger
brother and the father, and as
we walk through this, we're gonna
start talking about these, these
questions and, and these statements.
And this is kind of the statement
that kept sticking out to me as I
begin to read this, and I'm gonna
say this at the end of every, every
section is, don't be this guy.
So if you want to hear
me say, don't be this.
I'm also speaking to you, ladies,
don't be this lady, don't be
this gal, whatever you wanna do.
Okay.
And what ends up happening is just
like I did, when I stopped there and
said, man, he got what he deserved.
what I'm saying to myself.
Don't be that guy.
And there's gonna be a lot of
these statements today that I
hope will ring true in our lives,
where we can say, you know what?
I don't need to be that guy or that girl.
That's not who God made me.
And we're gonna learn what we need
to be, what guy or girl we need to be
because of what God has done for us.
So let's jump in with the younger son.
First we see here in verses 11 through
16, about his rebellion, right?
So the younger son gets tired of his
father gets tired of listening to him.
Right.
He knows better.
And so here's the interesting part
in that day, the son had every
right to go and ask for his estate
in advance before his father dies.
Typically a father dies, then his estate
is distributed, but at that point it
was okay to go and ask for his share.
And he did, it was not very
nice that he did, but he could.
And here's the interesting part.
I want you to not miss this.
We're gonna come back and address it
later, but it says that the father went
ahead and gave it to him and it says,
so he distributed the assets to them.
What does them mean in this instance?
Both of the brothers got their
inheritance at that moment.
We're gonna see this later, why this is
important that we don't miss this later.
So he distributed the assets to them.
Right?
We've all been there though.
When we look at this younger,
younger brother that we think
we're right, we think we're right.
We think we can do something better.
We know what to do.
And sometimes for parents, the best thing
is to let their kids go ahead and do it.
Right.
I've heard my kids say, you know,
but I like jumping on my bed.
Don't do it.
I like jumping on my bed though.
And so they do it and they hit their heads
and fall off and wait, that's a song.
Um, but you guys know this, that
sometimes the best way to teach your
kids is to let them fail and not, you're
not enjoying it as a parent, but what
you're realizing that in their failure,
they're gonna realize how wise you are
or how wise God is in this instance or
how wise this father is in this instance.
And so what does the father do?
He gives him him his estate and
he says, you know, You go see
what you can do with your estate.
See if you know, what's better.
And so we see again, versus 13 and 14,
he decides to gather up all he has.
And he travels to a distance country
where he squandered his old estate.
And after he spent everything, there
was a very, uh, hard famine that
shrunk and he had nothing, right?
So it didn't take long for
the son to spend his estate.
And when we think about this estate,
this estate had to be pretty.
and it didn't take long
for him to spend it.
And the only thing I can attribute
this to, uh, you've probably
heard the stories about people
that have won the lottery, right?
Most people that won the lottery
and had to look at the statistic
because sometimes we just exaggerated.
But the statistic that I found is that
70% of people that have won at least
a million dollars are more in lottery.
After five years are bankrupt.
After five years.
And so what we realized with this son is,
is he's very similar to the world, right?
Is they get this big chunk of money
and then they go and they waste it
thinking, Hey, I've got plenty of
money and all of a sudden it's gone.
And so, um, we see that he
made the wrong choice, right?
He did not value money.
And I think about that with my kids.
My kids always ask this question.
This is why it's important as parents
that we don't just give them free reign
on what we buy is they don't understand
the concept of money typically, right?
So why can't we do this?
Why can't we buy this?
And it's because money
doesn't grow on trees.
Anybody ever made that statement
money doesn't grow on trees.
Your parents probably told you that
money doesn't grow on trees, but that
concept doesn't make sense to them because
they're just kids think about this son.
That concept didn't make sense to.
But his father went ahead
and let him figure it out.
And it obviously came back,
uh, and it didn't even take
him five years to learn this.
Right.
Uh, so he was no wiser than his father
when it came to figuring this out.
Um, and so when we look at this, just
like the statement I made, we would look
at this younger son is stupid, right?
Like I I'm, I'm wiser.
I mean, how stupid is he to
take his father's investment
and then go waste it away?
You know, this is just crazy.
But guys, I wanna, I
wanna stop just a second.
I wanna look at this story from the
context, from a spiritual standpoint,
in this story, the father is God.
And in this story, the younger
son can be us at times.
And we've been given an inheritance
through salvation, right?
Salvation is being forgiven of our
sins, being given a new life, to
live for Jesus, to experience his
hope now, and his hope and eternity.
At times, though, what we do is
we take this inheritance and we
say, you know what, God, I know
what to do with this inheritance.
And you know what the inheritance is.
It's a new life.
God, I know what to do with
this new life more than you do.
I don't need you anymore, father.
I'm gonna go figure it out on
my own and go do what I want.
And what does that lead to
destruction destruction.
It, it leads to things that
are not valuable for us.
And so we, we continue on in this story
and this is the interesting part, right?
So he hits rock bottom.
And where would he, where should
he return back to his father?
Right back to the one who
said, maybe that's not right,
but he didn't go back to SAR.
What did he try to do?
He tried to solve his own problems
rather than emitting this mistake.
Step one.
I want you to think about this guys,
when you hit rock bottom, whenever
you make decisions that aren't wise
and you know, you know, maybe God is
right or maybe my father is right,
or whatever it is quickly go back.
Don't try to figure it out on your own
because this is what's gonna happen.
He tries to figure it out on his own.
And it says this, that he went to work
for one of the citizens of the country
who sent him into the fields to feed pigs.
The younger son.
Is now going to do what he didn't
wanna do for his father work.
He didn't wanna work for his father
anymore, and now he's gonna go work,
but he's gonna work for someone who he
doesn't even know and come to figure
out that's not even really feeding him.
And so he begins to just work and work
and work and it's not fulfilling him.
It's not fulfilling him at all.
And so taking part of the estate and
living it up seemed to be right for
him, but it really ended up wrong.
It seemed like it would become successful,
but int ultimately it ended up failing.
So this is where we see in verse 17
through 19, the younger sons repentance.
This is the part where finally gets in.
I love this statement where he says,
when he came to his sense, you ever,
you ever do that sometimes you're in the
middle of doing something and you go.
What the heck am I doing?
This is stupid.
All right.
I'm, I'm gonna stop doing this, or I'm
gonna start doing this, whatever it is.
You just come to your senses.
Well, it finally, he comes to his
senses at rock bottom, after he tried
to figure it on his own and he repented.
And this is what the word repent means.
Repent means to change one's mind.
See, I think sometimes when we think of
repentance, we're very, very prideful
because we have to admit that we failed.
And I have a pride issue, just, I don't
know about you, but I have a pride issue.
I don't like being wrong.
I, I do not like being wrong.
Ask my wife.
She's not even in here.
She knows it.
We have these battles
because I'm always right.
Right.
I mean, anybody like
me, we're always right.
And when we're not, we wanna
make sure, you know, we're still
right, because we don't like it.
Admit we're wrong.
I point this out to say this guys.
Repentance is so important in our lives.
Most people hear the word repentance
at the moment of salvation.
We need repent of our sins and trust
in the Lord, but we forget that
repentance is a daily activity.
Why is it daily?
Because my pride.
Comes up daily because I am a simple
person, separated from an eternal glory
where I won't send one day and I'm in the
flesh, which means consistently I'm gonna
have things where I, I make mistakes.
I think saying things, I say things
or I do things that do not honor God.
And most of the time it
doesn't honor those around me.
And so I need to look inward and repent.
And so we look at this, he decides to
repent because he comes to his sense.
He realizes what he's doing is crazy.
so what happened?
Right?
He changed his mind about his situation
about himself, and he admitted his need.
I I've challenged many people
before with this statement.
Like our lives are heading in the
direction of our strongest thoughts.
Do you know that the, the battles that
I face every day are one in the mind?
I'm just telling you because the
mind is consistently deceiving me.
The enemy, we all have an enemy
that is consistently trying
to distract us consistently.
Try to make us think that money or
relationships or position in our job or
social media or friends you fill in the
blank is what is going to fulfill you.
But we need to come to
the same conclusion.
We need to come to our senses,
just like the younger son did.
And we need to admit that we have
failed, that we are seeking the
things that are not beneficial for us.
And so here's one of the
things I think so cool.
So it goes on here and it says
when he came to his census, he
said, how many of my fathers hired
workers have more than enough food?
And I'm here dying of hunger.
At this point, the younger son realized
that his father was a generous.
Because his hired workers would be the
lowest of low on, on, on, basically if you
look at his whole estate that he owned,
those would probably be the low people.
The people that are just the common
workers and even those people, his
father take takes care of well.
And he's like, you know, even if I was one
of them, I would be well taken care of.
So he begins to realize that his
father is generous as he's coming
to his sense, as he realizes that
his father takes care of them.
And I love this statement cuz
it really challenges us when we
think of this picture of God.
And God loving, even the least of
those, this is what's so important.
It is God's goodness,
not just man's badness.
That leads us to repentance.
I'm gonna say this again.
It's God's goodness,
not just man's badness.
That leads us to repentance.
Most people think about this.
Most of us think this way.
I feel bad for my sin because I've
fallen short of whatever God's called
me to, or I have conviction in my life.
I'm such a horrible person.
I need to repent, but we don't
realize that a loving father
sitting on the other side of that
repentance saying, I love you.
Even in the middle of your
sin, he's saying, I love you.
I'm a good father who takes
care of the least of these.
If you feel like the
least of ease, I love you.
See, I need to see that more times
than not because all soak all soak.
I'll say that right.
Better all.
So in my badness, I'll look in
the mirror and I'll hate myself.
I'll think of the things I think of
or the things that I do or I don't do.
And I will destroy myself and I'll forget
that the father's love is greater because
he even takes care of the least of these.
And in that moment, I am the least of.
See, I think it's so important that
we put those two together and this
son came to his senses not to see his
badness because he had, I mean, I'm,
I'm guessing the reason why he didn't
go back to his father initially.
How can I come back to my father
empty handed with nothing?
I'm gonna go work and maybe I can
come back later with something guys.
I'll tell you.
We try to clean ourselves
up before we come to God.
Even, even if you've come to faith
in Christ, we still do that today.
We try to come to the Lord and say,
well, I've reconciled with myself and
other people now, will you forgive me?
And the father's sitting there the whole
time saying I would've forgiven you at
the moment that you recognized your fault.
You could have came a lot earlier,
but I, I even go back to before
salvation, if you've not given your
life to Christ, I sat a year in the
church listening to gospel message
after gospel message, trying to
make myself right before I came to.
I spent a year trying to be a
better person before I could
admit to God that I needed him.
And you know what I realized after a
year I was never gonna be good enough.
I was never gonna be good enough.
And then I realized this God never
asked me to be because he is.
So there came a moment on a Sunday
night that I said, I can't do it.
And the Lord said, you don't have to.
I already did.
And that's what changed my life.
But even as a believer, We need to
be reminded that we don't need to
get it right before we come to God.
We need to come to God to get it right.
I'll say that again.
We don't need to get it
right before we come to God.
We need to come to God to get it right.
That approach.
That's good.
I ain't have that in my notes.
somebody hashtag that for me.
I'll remember it later.
So he humbled himself, right?
That's hard to do.
I think that's the most difficult
thing to do in my life is to
humble myself and admit I'm.
But we just need to recognize our
sin and our need is not enough.
This is so important.
We can't just recognize
our sin and our need.
We need to respond by
getting up and going.
This is where I love versus 20 and 21.
We're gonna lead the read the
first part of 20, and we're gonna
lead all of 21 because the second
part of 20 talks about the father.
And we're gonna get into
that in just a minute.
but the first part of, so I didn't even
read these, but verse 18 and 19, really
talk about him reciting to himself.
What he's gonna tell his
father when he gets there.
But then verse 20 says this.
So he got up and he went to
his father, do not miss this.
Sometimes we see ourselves and our sin.
Sometimes we repeat in our heads what we
need to do, but then we never act on him.
Let me give you a great example again,
we're we have a mission team here
from Oklahoma, if you don't know that.
So this is the mission team from Oklahoma,
but you guys have sat in church services.
Most of y'all at some point in the
last couple years, if you haven't
been in one and you've listened to
a message where, you know, you've
heard the truth, maybe it's the
truth to give your life to Christ.
You know what to do to give your life
to Christ or to repent of your sins.
And you are like, I know what to do.
And you know, you've left outta
that service and not done it.
I mean, I've done that and I've been
preaching the messages and there's
times I've left out and not done it.
So you probably relate a lot with me.
We know what to do this, this
younger brother, the younger son
knew what to do, but he acted on it.
I love that in verse 20 that he
got up and he went to his father.
And again, I'm gonna talk about that
less part of, uh, 20 in just a minute.
So let's jump down to 21.
It says the son says to the father,
after the father comes to him, I have
sinned against heaven in inner sight.
And I am no longer
worthy to be called your.
So he admitted his sin and
asked for forgiveness after his
father came and, and hugged him.
So here's the statements I wanted to
leave you with just with the younger son.
What we can learn from the younger son.
Number one, don't be the guy or gal
who thinks he or she doesn't need
God to guide or direct their lives.
Don't be that person that
says, God, I got this.
Or if you've given your life to Christ
and you're saying, Hey, I'm saved.
Don't just say, Hey, I've given
my life to Christ and I've got,
I've got the rest of my life.
I'll come back to you when I need you.
Because if not, if that's
what we choose to do, we'll
be just like the prodigal son.
We'll catch ourselves
running back to the father.
Number two, don't be that guy who is
too prideful to admit he was wrong,
which will lead to destruction.
Humble yourselves.
Last one.
Don't be that guy who thinks he cannot
be forgiven for what he has done.
I, I want you to not miss that statement.
There are times guys where you will
have moments in your life where you
will think that you've gone too far and
you, the Lord's gonna say not in, not
in my book, you can still come back.
So those are some statements I
want you to cling to from the
younger brother will re reflect on
those at the end of the message.
We're gonna jump on now to the father.
And this is a great picture.
Again, this father in this
picture is the father.
God.
So let's read verse 20 when I'm
gonna read all of 20 together,
it says, so he got up speaking of
the son and he went to his father.
But while the son was still a
long way off, his father saw him
and was filled with compassion.
Let's set this up.
Number one, the father is
looking for his son to come back.
If he wasn't, he wouldn't
have saw him far off.
He would've been busy working,
going on about his life and his son
would've showed up and he would've
been like, oh, son you're back.
But he was looking for his son.
Number two.
He was already ready to forgive him
before he knew if he was gonna ask
for forgiveness, because he asked
for forgiveness after the father
hugged him, let's read that right.
And said, so we got up and went to his
father, but when the son was still far
off, he saw him and was filled with
compassion and he ran and threw his
arms around his neck and he kissed him.
The father came to him.
Before he knew now again, maybe him
walking back, he had a sense, he's
probably coming back asking for
forgiveness, but he had no clue.
I think that's such a huge picture.
When we look at this, we have to take the
first step, which is what the son did.
It says he got up and went.
We have to get up and recognize our
need for God, but God will do the rest.
He will run after you.
He will put his arms around you.
And I know you may not like
this, but God will kiss you now.
That's just not literal,
but you know what I mean?
He won't withhold anything from.
It's basically what
this thought is, right?
He gets up from his throne
and he walks towards you.
He runs towards you.
And I love this father or this
thought that this father is exactly
like God that he runs to us.
Right.
We don't.
And here's another
picture I want you to see.
We don't have to come all cleaned
up before God welcomes us home.
Think about this guy.
He literally came from the
pig pins to go see his father.
And imagine his father, I'm just
telling you I'd be this father.
I love my kids, but if they're in the
pick pen and they start coming back,
I'm gonna be like, go get cleaned up.
And when you're done getting
cleaned up, I'll give you a hug,
but this father did not do that.
He ran to his son who would
be dirty and disgusting.
And he began to hug him.
And that may not be a good scene
in your mind, but to me, that is
a father that will go wherever.
And whenever, however, to meet his son
and his children, wherever they're at,
if this is a picture of God, there is
nothing that God sees your life, that he's
like you're too disgusting to be around.
There's nothing.
And see, that's the God that I
continually want to preach about.
I wanna preach about a God.
That is not the God.
That is all this mean.
God, that just wants to judge
everybody and see everybody go to hell.
That's not God.
God's a compassionate God that loves
everyone and desires everyone to come
to know him and experience the hope
and the peace and the joy and the
love of a hug and a loving father.
This picture is so huge to see
for us because sometimes we think
we need to clean ourselves up
before we come to the father.
So in verse 22, it goes on, it says, but
the father told us servants, and this
is right after he in verse 21, the son,
again, now he shows any repents, right?
I've said in your sight, I'm no
longer to be worthy to call your son.
And it's almost like the father ignored
anything he said, and he said, servants.
You go get the best robe and you put it
on him and you put the ring on him and the
finger on his sandals and on his feet and
bring out the phatic, Cal and slaughter
it, and let's celebrate with the feast.
So all the younger son wanted to do.
If you remember, he just
wanted to be the least of the
least in his father's kingdom.
That's it.
See, here's the cool part.
When we come to Jesus, even after
we've given our lives to Christ and
we repent when we come to Jesus, we
are restored back to our original.
I believe before the son left, he
had a coat, nice coat, and he had a
ring and he had signals on his feet.
The father just restored
him back to his position.
He didn't say this,
this is another picture.
I want you to see guys, the father, didn't
say, Hey, there's gonna be a trial period.
And we're gonna see, you know, in three
to six weeks, if you do good enough.
And if you do, I might move you up a rung
and we're gonna wait a little longer.
No, he restored him back to this level.
This is a challenge for me guys.
I am, I'm kind of that person, when
somebody hurts me, I kind of wanna
let them back into my life slowly.
And, and so, you know, this isn't like
condoning, like somebody who is abusive
or whatever to, to like let them back
into your life fully to do that again.
But I would even say a lot of times, it's,
it's, it's understanding in relationships
that we cannot hold a grudge over
someone and hold a standard that they
have to meet before forgiveness comes.
You wanna know why we forgive people?
Not because they're forgivable, meaning
like they've done something to be
forgiven, but because God has forgiven us.
If, if that's the God that runs
after me and hugs me just so you
know, the person that you're not
forgiving, God's hugging them too.
He's running after them too.
And as much as you don't like it and wait,
we're starting to really hit the button.
Right.
These Pharisees didn't like it
as much as we don't like it.
That's who God is.
That's why God sent Jesus.
He sent Jesus here to be with
the sinners and tax collectors,
the worst of the worst.
And when we start thinking that we are
not the worst of the worst, we have
become the worst of the worst because
we have become prideful and realizing
that we are all broken and in need
of Jesus and in need of God's love.
So he puts the best clothes and the
best shoes and the best ring on him.
Right?
And this is this picture that this
son is no longer a slave to sin.
That is beautiful, that he is now.
A son and a child of God.
So he celebrates his son repentance by
throwing a party who doesn't like parties.
I love parties.
We should throw more parties.
I realize this.
When people get their lives to
Christ here, we should literally
just stop everything, ordering
pizza and just hang out.
I mean, being honest and, and you
wanna know why let's go back to,
to chapters to get chapter 15.
Let's look at verse, um, 10 here.
Let's just read the whole parable.
So it makes sense.
This is the lost coin.
So verse eight through 10, it says,
or what woman who is 10 coins.
If she loses one coin, does, does
not lie to lamp, sweep the house and
search carefully until she finds it.
And when she finds it, she calls her
friends and neighbors together and
rejoices to rejoice with me because I
have found the silver coin that I've lost.
And this is Jesus saying this.
He says, I tell you in the same
way, there is joy in the presence of
angels over one sinner who are pin.
Do you know, that verse was repeated
to me the day I gave my life to Christ
and I walked down to my pastor and I
said, Hey, I gave my life to Christ
and he repeated that verse to me.
And here's what he said.
Do you know the, there is a
party going on in heaven for you?
And I went, what?
Yeah.
So this is what I love about the father.
He took a literal, Hey, if there's
a party going on in heaven, why
don't we just duplicate it here?
Let's kill the fat and calf.
Let let's party.
Why?
Because he says my son was dead.
My son was lost and he is now alive.
If you've given your life to Christ, that
is you every day, cuz every day that you
wake up and you realize that you are a
child of God celebrate, you are not dead.
You are alive, you are receiving
hope and forgiveness of your sin.
Like that is a beautiful picture
of, of this celebration, right?
So what can we learn from the father?
This is great.
Don't be the guy who thinks again that
God is an angry God that will just,
just wants to destroy us and punish us.
He is a guy that loves us and pursues
us and will meet us where we are at.
Don't be that guy or girl.
I wanna continue to say that who
thinks God forgives you, but he'll
never use you the way he did before.
I, I, I want to be as clear as
possible as your pastor today of the
things that God has forgiven me for.
I have many times thought,
should I even be a pastor?
And so, you know, it's not like
I'm talking about like, major, but
like, should I even be a pastor?
Like sometimes I just
struggle with laziness.
Sometimes I just struggle
with self-confidence.
Should I even be leading this church?
And you know what?
God reminds me.
You're not, I am through you obedience.
And every single time I ask God
to forgive me and I come back
to him and I swear to him here.
I'm just reminded God uses broken people.
Every day.
So don't let God deceive you.
If he forgives you, that he can't
use you in amazing ways like you
did before, or maybe even the first
time before here's the last one.
Don't be that guy who thinks repentance
is a one time thing for salvation.
Remember that repentance
is a daily process.
And as we repent, we are restored
to a new relationship and our
relationship is right with God.
And our lives are a lot closer to
God and we are spending less time.
Living in despair.
So let's look at the older son.
We're gonna summarize this with
the older son and, and move on.
I know you guys have been
hanging on for this for a while,
but now the older son, right?
This is the part of the story that Jesus
is addressing the religious leaders
right about their outward actions
may have been blameless, but their
inward attitudes may not have been.
So the first part we see here in
the first three verses 25 through
27 is really just the older brother
being made aware of what happened.
So now the older son has
been in the field all day.
He came near to the house and
he heard dancing to music and he
summoned one of the servants and
questioned what these things meant.
He said, your brother is here.
He told him, and your father has
slaughtered the fat and calf because
he has come back safe and sound.
That should be good news.
I just tell you, I love
my brother and sister.
If I knew that they had lo left, I
would be super happy if they came back.
But let's, let's not give
this guy much of a hard time.
Wanna know why.
Because the younger son demanded half
of the, the estate and took it with him.
He, he basically said when he took that
estate father, this is the younger son
basically saying to the older father,
when he takes this estate, I wish you
were dead because I want your money now.
So how his younger brother left was tough.
So the older brother sitting
here going, what's going on?
Did I miss something?
Didn't the younger son,
the younger brother.
Wasn't he a horrible person?
Why should there be a party?
Right.
So I think that there's two people
that's and I love this story.
There's two people that would be
frustrated and mad at what's happening.
Number one, it's the brother number two.
It's the calf that fat a calf
had been getting fat for a while.
And now he's dead.
Sorry, horrible joke.
But we see that the older
brother was unwilling to forgive.
Let's look at verses
26 and on it says here.
So he summoned one of the, or, sorry.
Um, yeah, so he summoned one
of the servants and questioned
what these things meant.
Um, uh, where am I at here?
Am I on the right page?
Yeah, I'm on the right page.
I'm sorry.
He says your brother's here.
I've already read that.
So 28 he says, then he became angry
and didn't want to go into the party.
Right.
So his father came out
and pleaded with him.
Let's stop right there.
The father has now ran
after the younger son.
and met him in his despair.
And now the older brother is refusing
to go in and the father doesn't go.
You know, I ran out to the younger
brother because he was coming back,
but you're refusing to come in.
I'm not coming out.
No, he, he met him where he was at too.
See, that's how good God is.
There's only, there's not like three
places that God's gonna meet you at.
No, he meets you anywhere you were at.
And this is what the father does.
He meets him outside where he is at.
And here's what he says.
Um, He says, but he replies to his father.
He says, look, I've been slaving
many years for you and I've
never disobeyed your orders yet.
You gave, never gave me a goat so that
I could celebrate with my friends.
He says, but when the son of
yours, who has, devouted your
assets with prostitutes, you
slaughtered the Fadden calf for him.
Right.
When we look at the brother's resume,
it would be hard to kind of say,
man, the father did him wrong, right.
He didn't give him a goat, at least
a goat to party with his friends.
He, he didn't give him things
after all of his hard work.
I'll just anybody ever been judgemental
at your work where you're working
your tell off and like you're
coworker works half the, and you're
both getting the same money and
the same raise and the same time.
You, you all know you've had that.
And if your kids, you've probably seen
this, you'll see some of the kids in your
classroom, they're doing half the work,
but somehow the teacher doesn't care and
they just give 'em the grades they want.
I mean, it's happened to me.
Like we've all had those moments
where, where somebody's getting
something better than us and we
don't get it cuz we've worked hard.
So the brother seems to again,
have a justified position.
So we seem to wanna relate with
the older brother a little bit.
I know I do, but there's a deeper issue.
As we begin to look at this, the
brother's actually pretty self righteous.
I've never done anything wrong.
I've worked hard my whole life for you.
Like that's pretty bold statements to say,
because I know none of us are perfect.
He's unconcerned for his younger
brother who was lost, who he
knew had lost all of his money.
He also had a poor attitude towards his
father in the way his father treated him.
So he wasn't respectful
there and he was prideful.
Right.
And this is just reminds me of this.
We can do.
All these things for the Lord, but
with the wrong heart are nothing,
you know, it's better to have the
right heart and, and well, you're
gonna do something the right heart.
But typically what happens is we try
to justify ourselves by our works.
And that's what this older
brother was trying to do.
He didn't wanna share in his
father's own estate with his brother.
Think about it.
The cat that they had
killed was his brothers.
Because at that moment, when they
split the estate, the brother
owned a portion and now the
younger brother owned a portion.
So everything that they were eating
that day was the older brothers.
So now the younger brothers now
taking his estate that seemed
to burn a little bit harder.
Right.
But this would stick to the
heart of the religious leaders.
This is what we're talking about.
Right?
Why should a center and a thief
get a party thrown for them?
When the older brother had been OB OBN
and this is the challenge, guys, how
do we get past this and reconcile this?
This is the realization.
This is where the father comes in.
He says, son speaking to the older
brother, he said to him, you are always
with me and everything I have is yours.
I, I want to stop and just
rest in this for a moment.
Sometimes we get so caught.
In doing all the right things
that we forget to celebrate and
enjoy all that we've been given
through an inheritance in Christ.
We wanna, we wanna just continue
to work like it's on our own
work, that that gets us to heaven.
But the whole time the older
brother was with the father.
Everything the father had was
his, the, the state was split.
The older son could have
actually went and had the party.
It was his, and he was
with the father every day.
So whenever his brother, and this is
the next part, whenever his brother
comes and it says, but, um, but we had
to celebrate and rejoice because the
brother of yours was dead and is alive
again, he was lost and is now fine found.
So basically the father tells the brother
we need to celebrate because your brother.
It's come back to life and is found.
See, again, we, we wanna be the
people that has all the money and
all the possessions and anybody
else that's made a mistake.
We wanna be like hanging in over their
head and being like, you know what?
You get go back to the,
you got what you deserve.
The younger brother got what he deserve.
Right.
We wanna be that prideful, arrogant,
like it's all ours, but just remember
the estate that, that older brother
had was his father's that he gave.
I, I don't know guys, there's, there's
so many things that we can see with this,
and I wanna wanna kind of end with this.
What can we learn from the older brother?
Don't be that guy who thinks someone
should not be forgiven for what
they have done, because they've
sinned differently than you.
I'm gonna say this again.
Don't be that guy or girl who thinks
someone should not be forgiven
for what they have done because
they've sinned differently than.
the older brother and the younger
brother, both had sin in the lives.
One was sin of pride.
One was sin of rebellion.
Both of 'em had a sin issue.
One recognized it, the other didn't
don't be that person that wants to be
forgiven of your sins, but not of someone
else's if they sin differently, don't
be that guy who says I'll celebrate.
When I know someone proves that
they've truly repented again.
Time will tell.
I I've said that before somebody, you
know, ask for forgiveness or they give
the life to Christ time will tell,
guess the moment we're doing that
is the moment that we are again, not
trusting in what God ha does for us.
Every day.
When we ask God forgiveness,
I wanna be fully restored.
I don't want him to put me on a
six week, you know, testing period.
And that's exactly what
he doesn't do, right?
The father didn't wait for the younger
son to prove that he, what he had learned.
Don't be that guy who thinks he is
better than the world around him.
Guys.
Don't be that church member that
Christian, that looks down on the world,
you're in the world and you are part of
the brokenness and you are, are blessed
to have received the inheritance.
And when you have that inheritance,
you are blessed to give that
inheritance to those who don't have it.
Last one, don't be that guy.
Who's too stubborn to
see the log in his own.
And not be willing to
repent the older brother.
We don't see how the story ends,
but most likely, if you kinda
look at this, the older brother
didn't care, he just didn't care.
He could not see past his pride
and sinfulness that his brother
was back home, safe and alive.
This story brings up a
lot to be thought about.
There's a lot in this story, right?
I've shared multiple things
about what not to be right.
Fill in the blank.
And as we go into a time of invitation,
I'm just gonna repeat some of these
things for you guys to think through that.
You can ask the Lord this
question in this story, who am I?
Am I the older brother?
Because that's exactly who the, the Jesus
was speaking to, was those religious
leaders, religious leaders who did all
the good things, the right things on the
outside, but their heart was not right.
Are you the younger brother?
And you have ran from the Lord, you have
wasted some of the, the precious life
that God has given you after salvation
to not live a life for the glory of God.
And for the benefit of others, maybe
you need to repent and turn from God.
Or turn to God from your sins.
And, uh, maybe that's something you
need to ask the Lord about today.
So I'm gonna read through these.
So you guys can just think through
these to be able to think maybe
what God would be speaking to you.
So again, don't be the guy who
thinks that he or she knows, right.
Or girl, he, she knows.
They don't need to be
guided or directed by God.
I'm gonna say that again.
Don't be that guy or girl who
thinks he or she doesn't need God
to guide and direct their life.
Don't be that guy or girl who
thinks they cannot be forgiven
for what they have done.
I'll just say it this way.
Don't be that person who thinks
God is angry and just wants
to destroy or punish you.
Don't be that person who
thinks if God forgives you,
you can never be used for him.
Again, don't be that guy
who thinks repentance is a
one time thing at salvation.
don't be that person that thinks
someone should not be forgiven
for what they've done, because
they sin differently than you.
Don't be that person
who says I'll celebrate.
When I know someone proves that
they've truly repented, don't
be that person who thinks you're
better than those around you.
And don't be that person who's too
stubborn to see the sin in your
life and be unwilling to repent.
What is God calling you to do today?
There's so many things that I know I
don't, I it's a laundry list of things.
Here's my challenge to you is that
you seek the Lord this morning,
that you ask God what it is that
he wants to speak into your life,
that he wants to challenge you in.
This is what a time of
invitation's all about.
It's an opportunity to reflect and say,
God, what did you speak to me about?
And there was a lot of things
said, but my challenge is to take
a next right step, lay down your
pride, ask God for forgiveness.
Turn your life back to him.
Maybe give your life to
him for the first time.
And, and I extend this
invitation every single week.
If you've never given your
life to Jesus and you wanna
know what it is to follow him.
I want you to talk to me.
I want you to come and ask questions.
I hang out in the back during invitation.
I hang out back next steps at the
end of service for you to come up
and say, Hey, I got a question.
What does it mean to follow Jesus?
I got a question I've been
struggling with this sin.
How do I overcome it?
That's what I'm here for, to walk
with you through, but I'll just
challenge you with this last statement.
Before I pray for a pray don't delay.
You've heard enough truth today to know.
that if you've sinned and you fall short
of God's glory and you haven't given your
life to Jesus, you can, those are two
pieces that you have today, but don't say
I'll do that tomorrow, or I'll do that
next week, or I'll do that next year.
Today is the day of salvation
to give your life to Jesus.
Today is the day to take
that next step in your faith.
If you've been forgetting or, or
putting it off, I challenge you to
take that next step of faith today.
So I'm gonna pray for us.
And then we'll have a time of invitation.
So Lord Jesus, we pray Lord that you, um,
open our hearts and minds to your truth.
Lord, I pray that you, um,
encourage each one of us Lord.
Um, To know you more Lord.
I pray that through this word,
Lord, that each one of us has
something that we can take home
with us to apply to our lives Lord.
But I'm also wanting to speak to the
person in this room, Lord, maybe who
has fallen away from the Lord or who
has never given the life to the Lord.
Lord, I pray that today they take
that next step, uh, and begin
to walk in faith to begin to
trust you with their, their life.
Um, And, um, they give
their life to you Lord.
So I pray that they have questions
about that Lord, that they'll
come back and talk to me during
an invitation or after service.
And so Lord, just pray
this in your family name.
Amen.